    ---keywords 
        > qq 
        > qq 
        > pp 
        > tobecontinue
        > tobere 
    ---preview
    ---detailview
        ---essential 
            pruf-re-ok- slides-intro 
                +qq Computational fluid dynamics - Wikipedia
                    qq what are typicall complicated computing cases? x2 
                    qq whats the diff. bet. FVM and FEM
                    qq how can we model the fluids? 
                    qq what is lageridian multiplier? how it was used? 
                qq what is the diff. bet. cfd and sph?
                qq explain following: DEM, CFD, SPH, FEM, FVM? FDM
                qq if we want to simulate fluid, what kind of method can we use? 
                qq if we want to siulate sand? 
                qq what if we want to similate powders? 
                    > sugar or proteins
                    > bulk materials in storage silos
                    > granular matter, like sand;
                    > Blocky or jointed rock masses
                    > rock masses
                qq compare CFD methods: FEM, FVM, and SPH 
                qq if we want to simulate: gases, wind
            pruf-re-ok- slides-1 CG3_01_Physically-Based-Simulation
                    qq the idea of nondimensionalization?
                    qq what is the equation of harmonic oscillator?  p4 
                    qq solve? 
                    qq rewrite with state vector 
                    qq when using numeric method, there will be err, 
                        > how can we know that? 
                        > how to solve? x2 p5 
                    qq physical quantities and their relationship? -large 
                    qq how derived units can be written?? in terms of base units x7+1 p7 
                    qq What unit has damping constant? p8 
                    qq how units can be used? x2 p8 
                        > derive units of physical constants
                    qq how can we validate physical formulas??
                    qq the case of a sphere? p9 
                    qq solid angle def.? 
                    qq the unit of solid angle?? p9 
                    qq extended units and their expression with standard units p11
                    qq drive nondimensionalization of damped harmonic oscillator p14 
                        > why damping ratio is unit free? 
                    qq a few characteristic unit free parameters, why are they useful? 
                    qq how density is defined? trible derivative? op18 
                        > convert from and to density and mass? 
                    qq what is Eulerian and Lagragian view of a sys.? p19
                        ---
                    qq convert from above one to an other? p20 
                    qq how forces can be computed in a field? p21 
                    qq what is gradient? express with standard unit vectors
                    qq what is Conservative Force def.??
                    qq what is gradient theorem? proof it! computes the Work done with force. 
                    qq the condition that the force is conservative?? 
                    qq how to compute curl? wiki 
                    qq compute the work done by force f from x1 to x2 p22 
                    qq the equ. of solid angle?? wrt. theta phi p23 
                    qq &h The solid angle corresponding to all directions is 4pi
                    qq proof that oumiga all = 4*pi p24 
                    qq eular Lagrange equation? describing a harmonic oscillator p29 
                    qq Lagrangian of a whole sys. ? p28 
                    qq action S of a sys. ? p28 ?? pp
                    qq what is the principle of stationary action? used to compute the what? with variational calculus?
                    qq Noether theorem? 
                    qq what are typical Conserved quantities? p32 
                    qq diff. integration methods and their properties, 
                        > stable? preserve energy?... 
                        > show them shortly,and the pic  
                    qq quantities that are conserved, due to spatial and temporal symmetries in the laws of physics....
                    qq flux def.? p34 
                    qq velocity field def. p34
                    qq function for both integral form and differential form. 
                    qq why no source term in conserved quantities? 
                    qq what is continuity equation used for? p35 
                    qq diff. bet. gradiant/ divergence/ curl operators??
                    qq The formula for the vector product??
                    qq formulas op04
                    qq product rule??
                    qq Derivation of the Explicit Euler Method
                    qq Graphical Illustration of the Explicit Euler Method
                    qq proof the stability 
                    qq numerical solution op5 
                    qq what is derived units, how they looks lke?
                    qq what unit can we used for measuring luminous intensity
                    qq what is the unit of xxx constant??
                    qq what is Nondimensionalization
                    qq Buckingham π theorem?? 
                    qq what is the unit of Solid angle??
                    qq why we still write sr unit??
                    qq example of damped harmonic oszillator
                    qq compare those two views
                    qq how can we transfer from field view to particle? and back? 
                        ---REVIEW---
                        ---
                        ---
                        ---
                    qq compare the direction of force and gradient of potential?
                    qq how is conservative force defined? op22 
                    qq def. of Conservative force 
                    qq the condition of a force that is conservative
                    qq express the dir with theta and phi
                    qq what is Minimization Principle
                    qq what is Fermat’s Principle
                    qq what is 斯涅尔定律 Snell's law?? law of refraction
                    qq derive the equ. of refraction 
                    qq the equ. of scalar Lagrangian?? op28 
                    qq action 𝑆 of the system?? op28 
                    qq the euler langrange equ.?? op29
                    qq apply euler langrange equ. to harmonic oscillator!! op29
                    qq proof that line is the shortest distance bet. two points !! 
                    qq how can we apply functional Analysis/ priciple of least 
                        def. action S -> scalar Lagrangian L -> Euler Langrange Equation -> solve 
                    qq what is Noether's theorem
                    qq what are typical diff. symmetry and their corresponding  
                    qq the equ. for numerical integration? x3!! op33 
                    qq compare them! 
                    qq what is dS vector here??
                    qq what is the continuity equation? def. ? 
                    qq integral and differential form of Continuity equation! x2 
                    qq what is the reason of conservation law in phy? in depth 
                    qq For conserved quantities they do not have a source term??
                    qq what is source term?
                    qq how can we describe the temporal changes of physical quantities in a phy system? fluid...or other quan, mass....
                    qq what is divergence theorem?? the basic of continuity equ. 
                    qq gradient theorem, proof op22 
                    qq what is the def. of conservative force??
            pruf-re-ok- slides-8 CG3_08_DGLs(Differentialgleichung)
                qq what is differential equation?
                qq what is the diff. bet. ode and pde??
                qq what is boundary conditions??
                qq implicit representation of an ode of order n?and explicit representation? 
                qq what is Order reduction?
                qq what is phase space, the case in physical system of 2nd order? 
                qq 自治（驻定）的系统?
                qq the case of Harmonic Oscillator, phase space?? what is that equ.?? 
                qq what is the time evoluiton func. of Harmonic Oscillator?? p6 
                qq what is autonomous DE?? how can it be used? why we need to know this? 
                qq what is Picard–Lindelöf theorem
                qq does Picard–Lindelöf theorem always true?
                qq 初值问题边值问题与柯西问题 
                qq describe the initial val. problem! of odes
                qq what is Lipschitz condition? **
                qq re- what is Lipschitz-condition, bi-Lipschitz-condition??  
                qq explain: * Every function that has bounded first derivatives is Lipschitz continuous
                qq can we solve sys. with collisions with closed form?? n why?? op08
                qq how can we archieve Analytic Solutions of odes??
                qq how can we solve initial value problem numerically?? p10 
                qq re- how conditions like initial value be used?? 
                qq formulate a numerical solution form of a DE
                qq why not a typical integration? how can we solve it? op10
                qq use explicit euler to solve this?? 
                qq what is the bkg image p13? what field?
                qq error with respect to what?
                qq expression of the accu. error?? op15
                qq what is the appro. order of explict euler method??? error estimation? op15
                qq but the accumulated error grows with O(h)?? not h^2 ?? 
                qq what is the approximation order of a method whose has error pt. h^2 ?? 
                qq what is the approximation order of explicit Euler?
                qq what Numeric Integration methods do you know? x5 
                qq how does Verlet Method get a higher order? 
                qq estimate velocity from Numeric Integration, which difference scheme? 
                qq whats the approxi. order of Verlet method?? 
                qq the fomr. of verlet method, limitations of it?
                qq the formula/ proof of 4 methods  -large
                qq formula of diff. interpolation schemes x3 which one has better approxi. order?? 
                qq does Euler-Cromer Methode have approx. order ?
                qq why is Euler-Cromer Methode more stable than others of the same order?
                qq what is the App. ord.  of Runge-Kutta Methods?? 
                qq the idea of RK? why have higher order? 
                qq explain A-stable op21
                qq what test case does A-stable use? 
                qq what means of a DE is stiff?? 
                qq does implicit Euler Method is A-stable?
                qq proof that! op22 large 
                qq f ! explicit and implicit case! for Midpoint methods
                qq implicit midpoint is also symplectic??
                qq what feature does symplectic mean?  
                qq  let step be a kth app.ord. method. how can we adapt stepwidth? op26
                    qq how can we estimate step error?? 
                qq why use damped harmonic oscillator as a demo? 
                qq does most efficient scheme depends on application?
            pruf-re-ok- slides-4 CG3_04_Sampling-Techniques
                        ---REVIEW---
                        ---
                        ---
                        ---
                    qq how does nrook sampling work? p3
                    qq how one can gen. random shaffed vector? p3
                    qq what means caustic ?
                    qq how to gen. uniformly distributed random points with shuffe in c++ p4 
                    qq what means sampling in regular grids ? p5 
                ---r1
                    qq which Sampling Techniques do you know?
                    qq what means sth. follow a specific random variable distribution, draw to illu.
                    the <algorithm> header
                    qq with which func. can we gen. random var.?? op03
                    qq bring a vector into random order?
                        std::random_shuffle() from the <algorithm> header
                    qq how can we use std::mt19937 to gen. uniform distributed 2d samples?? 
                        > it is only a generator, must act as a parameter 
                    qq what is sample clustering? 
                    qq what is the problem of such a graph?(above)
                    qq what is a good sampling ?? 
                    qq what is Possion disk sampling, idea?
                    qq compare Stratified grid sampling and N-rooks sampling 
                    qq how can we sample according to a distribution: function_f/ integrate(f)?
                    qq what's the problem with Rejection Sampling? 
                    qq how Rejection Sampling can be used explain the pic! op06
                    qq how can we Sampling any Shape? in a simple manner?
                    qq how can we sample uniformly inside a given shape?
                    qq the idea and the goal of Transformation Sampling??
                    qq what is marginalization? 
                    qq what is cumulative density function CDF
                    qq derive the equ. used in tranformation sampling, the key condition connecting both? 
                    qq how can we understand transformation?? g(ita)
                    qq compute an example as found in picnotes
                    qq we know how to gen. uniform distributed val.
                        > in a [0,1] interval, but how can we transform it to arbitry interval??
                    qq can we change the interval with transformation sampling? y 
                    qq which relations do we have in 2d? 
                    qq the results! op11 down side
                    qq and folow arbitry distribution at the same time??
                    qq why do we compute conditional probability pdfs and cdfs?? 
                    qq how can we slove this in 2d??
                    qq the sampling procedure in 2d, example op13!!
                    qq what is equating cumulative distributions, inverse function??
                    qq how can we get uniform distribution over disk?? 
                        > from a square(in unifrom distrib.) x2 techniques 
                    qq the idea of transformation sampling? can we do this? 
                        > sampling of unit triangle and then transformed to arbitrary triangle
                    qq what we have to calcu. for a transformation sampling?? 
                    qq how can we sample manifolds?
                    qq what is manifold and its embedding space?? draw to illustrate! 
                    qq how can we get uniform circle sampling?? op15
                    qq compare rejection and transformation sampling
                    qq how can we uniformly sample the sphere surface?? 
                    **qq why Double Coverage is a kind of transformation sampling technique? 
                    qq what is Double Coverage?
                    **qq how can we sample a triangle uniformly?? 
                    **qq how can we sample normals on a hemisphere?? 
                        > example hemisphere for given  normal ?
                    qq how can we let probability density p(x,x) be proportional to a constant brdf?
                    ---tobecontinue
                    qq what is marginalization approach?
                    qq what is the  probability density for a hemisphere?? 
                    qq what is Transformation Sampling a Diffuse  
                        > BRDF in angle parameterization?? 
                    qq what is a Phong model? 
                    qq how can we make the phong model more physical plausible?
                    qq how can we sample a Phong Lobe?
                    qq what is the probability density of the Phong Lobe?
                    qq how can we sample discreate distribution?? op21
                    qq what discreate sampling techniques do you know as example?
                    ---Multiple importance sampling (MIS) 
                    qq MIS-estimator? expression?
                    qq why the integrant is often a product of several functions?? 
                    qq why MIS minimize variance?
                    qq the idea of MIS multiple improtance sampling 
                    qq give a equ. to show what unbaised mean!!!op26 
                        > the MIS estimator is unbiased??
                    qq how can we choose the weight so that MIS estimator is unbiased?? 
                    qq how can we compute average density?? op27
                    qq what is Balance Heuristic? formula op28
                    qq what is power heuristic? 
                    qq what is the relationship bet. them? 
                    qq two conditions the MIS estimator??
                    qq how can we compute optimal MIS weighting?? which heuristic
                    qq how can we combine direct light sampling and brdf sampling techniques
                        > to reduce variance? 
                    qq what is  a good choice for the exponent ??
                    qq distinguish brdf sampling and direct light sampling 
                    qq compare rejection sampling with transformational sampling 
                    qq  tt what are low-variance estimators??   
            pruf-re-ok- slides-6 CG3_06_Advanced_Materials
                qq what is Physical Plausible
                qq which Empirical Shading Models do you know?? x3 
                qq compare diffuse, glossy and mirror reflaction with a graph 
                qq what is the diff, bet. glossy and specular reflaction?
                qq computing reflected radiance from incoming radiance 
                    > for the following model: Lambertian, phong model, blinn-phong model 
                    > op07 large 
                qq what is v here? 
                qq how can we compute omega_half?  
                qq when is Phong model is unrealistically? why pp
                qq compare white-sky albedo and black-sky albedo, large 
                qq what is blue-sky albedo? 
                qq 2 properties that Any physical plausible BRDF-modell must fulfill?? x2 op10
                qq compute the normalization constants!! op11
                qq how can we make Phong model more realistic? 
                qq what is normal distribution function (NDF)
                qq cook torrance brdf equ.? write down! 
                qq the physical meaning of each term! 
                qq how can we simulate/approximate materials with multiple layers
                qq what can be included in the geometry term? x2 
                    in the cook-Torrance microfacet model 
                qq what is self shadowing and self occlusion ??
                qq how can we cpmpute geometry term G? 
                qq describe the filter approach in more detail 
                qq compare cook-torrance and oren nayer?
                qq compare cook-torrance and oren nayer?
                qq how can we compute the Fresnel term more effeciently?? why we have to approximate it? 
                qq explain the terms in cook Torrance bsdf! op19 
                qq what is the relationship bet. cook Torrance bsdf and Fresnel equation?
                qq how can we compute the Geometry Term? which three cases are there? draw to illustrate! 
                qq standerd solutions in applications?
                qq how can we do Improtance sampling in cook torrance model?
                qq Derivation of Frensnel Equations
                qq Fresnel Equations for Metals equ? 
                qq which fresnel term approximations exists for metals??  
                qq Oren-Nayar is a brdf model for diffuse approximation?? 
                qq 迪士尼原则--brdf的深入研究https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/60977923
                    qq 提出了三个方面的工具与资源
                    qq 各个模型的年代？具体的时间要记住！ 
                    qq 什么是艺术导向（Art Directable）
                    Disney采用了通用的microfacet Cook-Torrance BRDF着色模型
                qq Overview over BRDF models 
                    qq why Lambertian model inadequate ?
                    qq who introduced microfacet model first to computer graphics?
                    qq what is the relationship bet. Oren-Nayer model and Lambertian model?
                    qq the idea of oren nayer model? 
                qq explain how to use the frensel equ.
                qq what is a Anisotropic material?
                qq what is APS brdf? 
                qq how to To support anisotropy??
                qq how can we handle that the energy preservation will not hold?
                qq what meterials are typically Anisotropic??
                qq what is Torrance-Sparrow model? 
                    也被称为Cook-Torrance模型
                qq what does color mean when vis. brdf as Lobe?
                qq what means a brdf is phy plausible? x2 +
                ---Messung von BRDFs tobecontinue
                qq measures reflectance for combinations of?? what are inputs of the measuring process?
                qq how can we reduce number of necessary measurements? x2 
                qq how can a single BRDF sample can be illustated?
                qq For isotropic BRDFs all measurements  with the dots rotated around the normal 
                qq how can we get the brdf result? completely measure a BRDF
                qq how can we measure a brdf with minimal effort ? 
                    > sensor locations can be restricted to?
                qq which devices can be used to measure brdf?
                qq Three elemental components that can be used to model a variety of light-surface interactions??
                    > draw a graph to show the results 
                qq what pre requirements are needed?? op48
                qq describe the image-based BRDF measurement system?? 
                    > what is the idea behind? x2 
                qq idea of Lafortune model? the formula? 
                qq three types of brdf? compare them! 
                qq the idea of Lafortune Model
                qq how many parameters should be computed for a one-Lobe model? two-Lobe model? 
                ---Bidirectional texture  function (BTF)
                qq what is BTF 
                qq idea of spatial BRDF?? sBRDF
                qq the form of a btf database? 
                qq two representation of BTF? draw a graph to illustrate! 
                qq applications of BTF? x2 typical applications! best suitable applications! 
                qq what is BSSRDF
                qq the idea of BSSRDF
                qq unit of a bssrdf? and its dimention? 
                qq how bssrdf is used? 
            pruf-re-ok- slides-3 CG3_03_Monte-Carlo-Techniques
                    qq the operator form of the rendering equ. ? op4, i wrote 
                    qq what is the meaning of each compon. ? s3op6, i wrote 
                    qq trace-reflection operator? s2p18
                    qq splitting of the BRDF  s2p18
                    qq what is measurement operator? p4 
                    qq explain the dimensional explosion p6 
                    qq how can we solve a integral numerically? p6 x4 methods... roughly 
                    qq what is a quadrature rule 
                    qq why single sample estimator funcs? p9 
                    qq what is importance sampling ? p9 
                    qq how does Monte Carlo Techniques solved the problem of the curse of dimensionality? p11 
                    qq why we use importance sampling? 
                    qq what is the MC technique applying to reflaction integral? p17 
                    qq how can one compute Lin recur.in p17? code online 
                    qq why not use fixed termination depth? p18 
                    qq proof that the exp. value will stay the same! p18 
                    qq how to implement russian roulette? p21  returns the estimate?
                    qq explain the given code p19-21 
                    qq why sampling? p27 
                    qq explain code p29 
                    qq how to sample when there are a lot of light sources? p30 
                    qq what is path tracing p31 
                    qq the monte carlo case of path tracing p32 formula
                ---r1
                    qq measurement equ in operator form and rendering equ. op4 
                    qq why nested integrals?? op5 formulation 
                    qq how can we compute spectual power with help of nasted integral?? op5 
                    qq what is the dimension of the nasted integral??
                    qq quadrature rule
                    qq error estimation in brick-rule?? 1d,2d,d dimention! 
                    qq why exponential to d?
                    qq explain dimensional explosion or the curse of dimensionality
                    qq error estimation for d dimention?? 
                    qq what is the idea of Monte-Carlo Quadrature 
                    qq the expected val of func. f in uniform distribution case ?? op07
                    qq the error analysis of Monte-Carlo estimator, 
                        > how it decreases with increasing number of samples 
                    qq the most imp. part of MC estimator is that Independent of the dimension
                    qq variance of the expected val?? 
                    qq the expression of the estimator?? op7
                    qq how fast error changes with the number of sampels?? compute?
                    qq a modified estimator? why we do the modification?? 
                    qq what is the new expected value of estimator and variation?? op09
                    qq what simplifacation will be done for nested integrals 
                        > along light transport paths
                    qq what is Importance sampling, why good for estimating ?? 
                    qq why can we reduce variance in this way?? 
                    qq what can we do to reduce variance with MC estimator?? 
                    qq ofcourse we can do every thing with uniform distribution 
                        > instead of Importance Sampling? but with a high variance! 
                    qq the idea of MC integration? 
                    ---MONTE CARLO  GLOBAL ILLUMINATION
                    qq why can we sample independently?  
                    qq how can we summ over all contributions of rays ?? 
                        > single path Monte Carlo estimator looks like?
                        > from all diff. paths 
                    qq how can we Sampling the spectrum??
                    ---lense equation
                    qq what is focal points? not always pass through a focal point!
                    qq give the names in blank places! 
                    qq lens equ.! large 
                    qq how can we simulate depth of field (DoF) in GI??
                    qq Three main factors that will affect your control of the Dof??? 
                    qq How does aperture control depth of field? addi 
                    qq how can we simulate Dof in rendering ?? 
                    qq the longer you set your focal length the shallower the depth of field?
                    ---Spatial and Temporal Filtering
                    qq what is box filter when doing spacial filtering?? 
                    qq what is  optimal sinc-filter ? 
                    qq what is box filter 
                    qq what is tensor product
                    qq how can we do Spatial filtering ?? 
                        > temporal filtering for a blur effect? 
                    qq how can we achieve motion blurr? 
                    qq how can we extend 1d filtering to 2d? when applying spatial and time space filtering? 
                    qq why uniform sampling of the pixel area corresponds to a box filter?? 
                    qq what is the filter kernel looks like for box filter? 
                        > and its relationship with gaussian filter? 
                    qq what is theoretically optimal sinc-filter??
                        > Skalierung von Rastergrafiken verwendet werden k鰊nen
                    qq how can we extend 1d filter to 2d?? op17
                    qq how can we approximate the reflect term of RE?? approximate the directional form?? op18 
                       > using MC integration, the equ! fully understanding! 
                    qq when to terminate?
                    qq the diea of Russian Roulette?
                    qq the form of expectation in RR?? and why it looks like this? op19
                    qq why rr need a binary random varible b 
                    qq why the expectation remains the same 
                    qq why we have to make sure that the expectation remains the same??  
                    qq why not terminate in a fixed way?? op19
                    qq will the success probability decrease?? pp 
                    qq how can we do sample_hemisphere()? what should be feed in, what do we get from that? 
                    qq what is Nusselt's Analogon?? how can be used to improtance sampling?? op25
                    qq how can we do this? projection back? the formula? 
                    qq we sampled according to what?? op25
                    qq draw a graph to illus. 
                    qq what is Direct Light Sampling??
                    qq the expression of L_direct and L_indirect ?? op26 
                    qq which light sources are there? x3
                    qq how can we sample light source in this picture?? op28 draw! 
                    qq explain the code 
                    qq how to Dealing with Large Number of Lights with help of the idea of RR??
                    qq how can we define the probability for each light source, 
                        > when we have multiple sources ?? op31 
                    qq how can we reduce variance in Path Tracing?
                    qq Importance sampling is introduced to? 
                    qq explain the process of path tracing (later )
        ---particle/smoke sim  
            pruf-re-ok- slides-9 CG3_09_Particles
                qq what properties does a Particle have? x4+ 
                qq how can we gen. particles, randomly? which sampling?
                qq what is boids, how diff. from particles ??
                qq what should we cosider when imp. such a sys.?? x4 what cases should be avoid?  
                qq how can we do Visual Simulation of Weathering?
                qq the idea of gamma-ton Tracing
                qq Movement Probabilities for Each particle? possible movement??
                qq when does the movement probabilities change?
                qq where does 𝛾-ton reflectance stores initially?? 
                qq Patina case? how can we achieve this?? 
                qq what does a particle carry in this case?? op15
                ---
                qq Woven fabrics typically has which two distinguished directions?
                qq how can we model this? 
                qq how can we simulate internal forces?  x3 
                qq what If spring constant is chosen too small for easier integration 
                qq solution to this problem? x2 how can we simulate clothes more stable and stiff? x2
                qq what is Kawabata-Measurements? x3 test in three cases! 
                qq which three forces are used?
                qq what is Hysteresis effect? how can we simulate?
                qq what possible additional connections are there?  
        ---rbody sim
            pruf-re-ok- slides-10 CG3_10_RigidBody 
                qq what are Dynamics and Kinematics
                qq short notation that projections from one onto the other vector op3
                qq what is Euclidean transformation 
                qq how can we define natural origin and rotation of a rigid body? in 2d and 3d 
                qq what is the natural origin of an object? 
                qq how can we compute center of gravity in descrate case and continus case??
                qq what is affine combination
                qq draw the base vectors on a given graph!
                qq transform from object corrdi. to world coordi. *** and back. formula!!x2 
                qq derive velocity equ.!! both angular and linear velocity!
                qq what is the diff. bet. kinematics and dynamics?? 
                qq what is the dir. of Torque?? tobere
                qq how to understand this? :force acts twice once for linear and once the angular dynamics
                qq expression of the torque? in 3d case. vec3 calcu. op10
                qq the dimention of a torque in 3d case? 
                qq what is moment of inertia
                qq continuous case, the inertia tensor results from? the formula in continus case?
                qq calcu. of Inertia in both continus or descrate case *
                qq derive the fromula of Inertia tensor 
                qq why use  a* a^T?? matrix form?? 
                qq inertia tensor fromula op11  both descrete case and continus case! In 2d and 3d! x4 
                qq * give the formula in 3d case! op12 calcu. Inertia in Example of circular disk
                qq how can we express inertia tensor in program? 
                qq what is the dimention of inertia tensor?? 
                    > and inv_mass? and angular velocities?position? orientation? 
                qq give the calculation formula of computing the I of Cuboid! op13 
                    > and the result that we can directly use later! 
                qq how can we compute inertia tensor in world coordinate system? 
                    > transform from local coordi to global coordi.  op14 
                &p ok-op14 why this? have we imp. this before?? yes 
                qq how can we change bases from one to an other??.... matrix calcu. later!!! tt 
                qq what is the relation between force and linear momentum? tobere
                    > Torque and angular momentum?? 
                qq Inertia Tensor are changing during simulation? 
                qq what kind of spinning tops are there?? !
                qq will angular momentum and angular velosity 
                    > pointing at the same direction? 
                qq say, what’s the dir of angular velocity and the one of torque!?
                qq when will they pointing to the same dir? 
                qq where are spinning tops??
                qq what kind of spinning tops are there?? x2
                qq how a state of a rbody is defined?? x4 by four components?? position, ori. and? 
                qq why only reciprocal values are needed? 
                qq rotation must be orthogonalized after each integration step? we did not do that ?
                qq what is the The time evolution function as motion equ.?? op17 *** research 
                qq what does it mean if a 0 is stored in reciprocal mass or tensor of inertia???
                qq Normal component of mass matrix compute!! task5!! description..
            pruf-re-ok- slides-11 CG3_11_Collision 
                qq what is coll. handling??  
                qq what is free motions
                qq what is penetration depth??
                qq the sub tasks of a rbody simulator?? which components are there? op07 large
                    > explain their functionalities!  
                qq Filtering of contact points, what kind of contact pairs can be ignored??  
                qq why we filtering 
                qq main idea/ gen. idea/ which phy. laws are used in computing collisions?
                qq when and how we have to do an integration step?
                qq what impact types are there?? x3
                qq what is Hertz’s force law?
                qq which two phases are there?
                qq what is local influence area
                qq the Hertz’s constant can be calculated with a formula, for spec. shape?
                qq compare Rigid Body Impact and inelastic impact 
                qq deformation work and velocity after collesion?  -noneed 
                    > for both cases: elastic and inelastic cases
                qq the velocities and work can be computed? op13
                qq nearly all materials are partially elastic?
                qq how can we quantify the elastic property if a material? formula? tobere
                qq what is COR? coeffi. of restitution??
                qq what is the direction of relative velocity before and after collision?
                qq the velocities can be computed with epsilon! op14
                qq is the rel. velocity reversed after collision?? 
                qq If both masses are the same, we have a trivial solution?
                qq which non conservative forces do you know?? p15
                qq how is the relationship bet. Stokes‘ friction and Air friction and velocity? how to determin the coef.?
                qq is COR and coeffi. of friction properties of an object or material?? 
                qq Typically used values can be found online? which key word? 
                qq which contact types are there for polyhedral? 
                    > 2 non-degenerated contact types?
                    > degenerated cases 
                qq hwo can we calcu. contect normal in edge-edge case?? op18
                qq what is a trival solution? 
                qq what is a degenerate case? 
                qq how can we handle multiple contact normal directions?? avoid NP hardness 
                qq what is indeterminate contact? 
                qq what are degenerate types typically? x5
                qq how can we handle face overleap?
                qq how can Rectangle intersection problem be solved? algo! the complexity? op21 
                qq the idea of BVH collision test
                qq what do we need to test collections in near phase? 
                    qq tt how can we do xxx intersection tests? 
                qq Contact Extraction algo? large x3+ tobere
                qq Near Phase with SAT for OOBB, how many axis to be tested?? 
                qq the idea of SAT theorem?? 
                qq we have to express conservation law in normal direction! ??! 
                qq how can we simulate joints? ensure the joint constraint? 
                qq what is cross product matrix? 
                qq explain the idea of inverse mass matrix! K-matrix! 
                qq tt Derivation of K-Matrix! 
                qq tt compute the Change in Total Energy, derivation and the result? 
                qq how can we compute impulse? how can we update velocities of the two? pp with code?? 
                    > how can we compute impulse in: inelastic/ elastic/ partial elastic case? 
                    > (based on ennergy conservation) 
                qq how can friction force be visualized? 
                qq what does it indicates if a spin of the rigid body is observed? 
                qq what is normal_mass and tangent_mass? what are their difference? 
                    > and how are they used?? 
                qq how can we compute/ include friction forces? 
                qq * how can we decide whether to apply static or sliding friction?? 
                qq draw to illu. parallel and orthogonal force impact! op36 
                qq how can we compute tangential part of K matrix?? 
                qq impulse transfer? 
                qq how can we handle Multiple Contacts? op39 
                qq * for the Newton’s Cradle, our current knowledge is not sufficient! why? 
                qq how to handle this case? we may can not simulate Cradle
                qq describe the Sequential Impulses Algorithm(loop) detail  op46 
                qq how can we avoid penetration between diff. bodies? 
                qq what is the pre-condition of impulses computation? 
                qq impulses computation: op47 
                qq how can we inprove the stability of the Sequential impulse loop? ** x2 
                qq examples of Contact Constraints (for contact forces)
                qq what is contact forces vector? can we apply constrains on it?
                qq how can we solve LCP problem arises in computational mechanics? 
                qq how can we deal with Interpenetration from discrete time stepping ? 
                qq how can we handle in games? e.g. chains of bodies?
        ---fluid sim
            pruf-re-ok- slides-12 CG3_12_Fluid  
                qq Incompressible Navier-Stoke’s  op7 equ.
                qq “Incompressibility condition”?
                qq what is divergence of a vector field u?? op08 the pic! 
                qq does div depends on time??
                qq what is Reynolds Number
                qq what is Re<1, Re>40, Re>2000?? 
                qq what are particularly hard to simulate? 
                qq what is Existence- and Uniqueness of „physically plausible “ (energy-restricted) 
                    > solution of Navier-Stoke‘s-Equations in 3 dimensions? tt 
                qq what are our goals in cg? 
                qq what happends to Reynold when simulating gases??
                qq explain the behavier of Re number 
                qq how Re affacts turbulent fluids??
                qq what is material derivative?? 
                qq What forces act on the blob? x4
                qq the momentum equation?? Navier–Stokes momentum equation! 
                    > explain it! derive! op19
                qq we define a quantity in Eulerian view, how can we compute the derivative 
                    > in Lagrangian view? 
                    > derive the material derivative!`
                qq what is advection?
                qq the expression of heat equ. op22
                qq compare those two viewpoitns 
                qq what is Material Derivative? can we tell how 
                    > fast this quantity changes?? op26
                qq why equals to zero?? in "advection" equ??!! 
                qq what is the phy. meaning of xxx op27, how can we compute the changing in
                    > a fixed point?
                qq what do we know if the fluid is advection fluid? op27 ! 
                qq what if our fluid is color ... even if the vector field is velocity itself
                    > how can we handle this situation? 
                qq Advection Equation
                qq Real fluids are compressible why we assume liquids are incompressible 
                    > in fliud simulation? 
                qq derive the incompressible condition op31
                qq why irrelevant for animation?? op30
                qq the reason that div of u is zero everywhere?? for incompressible fluids. 
                qq why velocity field is divergence free for incompressible fluids? 
                qq how can we simulate this div free system? x2 
                qq besides grid based methods, what other methods do you know?? web
                qq what is numerical dissipation?? 
                qq what is numerical dissipation? how can be solved ??
                qq what is kinematic viscosity
                qq is air more viscous than water? 
                qq incompressible Euler equations? and explain!
                qq which Three types of surface can be found with fluid??
                qq how can we model solid wall? No fluid can enter or come out of! 
                qq mathematical expression of this? op38
                qq what is "no-stick" condition
                qq what is “no-slip”  condition? 
                qq how can we model Free Surface? 
                qq what if surface tension is impro. ??If surface tension is important 
                qq how about the pressure in this case??
                qq how can we model surface tension in Free Surface?? op39 
                qq when simulating two fluids interacting with each other, 
                    > do we know Density jump?
                    > what about the Normal velocity jump?? 
                    > what about pressure jump?
                    > (take the previous video as example!)
                qq hwo can we split a differential equation?? op43 pic given 
                qq can we split any equ. by solving them saparately? how? op43
                    > F and G function 
                    > and in First order accurate in time! 
                qq which component can we Split Momentum equ? x4 
                qq How can we make the fluid incompressible?
                qq compare simulation strategies: Eulerian grid and SPH based in nutshell
                qq op45 x3x1
                qq what is A Simple Grid Disaster??
                qq how can we solve such Simple Grid Disaster?
                qq what is The MAC Grid? pros and cons for it? 
                qq compute pressure gradient at velocity sampling point? 
                qq where are the velocity sampling points? and pressure sampling points? 
                qq where is the velocity??
                qq how can we compute velocity and pressure gradient in this pic.?? op48 
                qq where are we going to compute pressure gradient??
                qq what are downside of MAC grid? And array storage?? 
                qq Downside of this MC grid based strategy, possible solution?? 
                qq what is Semi-Lagrangian Advection?? 
                qq the idea of Semi-Lagrangian Advection??
                qq why Chief interesting aspect of fluid motion is vortices??
                qq compute the x_old with help of x_new? in explicit euler? 
                qq compute u at staggered location? 
                qq what is the particular requirements of a stable ODE integrator? 
                qq does Forward Euler handle vortices well? why? 
                qq can Forward Euler handle vortices correctly?? op53
                qq which ODE integrator can be used here with a better result?
                qq how can we get the velocity and compute u(xyz) vector?? based on MAC grid? 
                qq op54
                qq why advection step should be the first in the  split integration?? op55
                qq how can we get q(x_old) when the x_old position is not on grid? 
                qq What if x  old isn’t in the fluid? what should we do in this case?
                qq whta happends when we are beyond the original observation range
                qq what is the diff. bet. interpolation and extrapolation?? 
                qq region of interest (ROI) 
                qq only constraint the normal components of u when facing solids? 
                qq why cannot  can't use the solid's own
                qq what is volumetric animator forces?
                qq how can we add such a force? 
                qq we have to solve pressure before advection? 
                qq “Poisson equation” for pressure?? op62
                qq what is the incompressibility condition on the new velocity on grid ijk??
                qq what are possible grid point types?? x3 
                qq explain this pic
                qq why we update pressure first? 
                qq compute the ghost pressure for the simplist case! 
                qq linear equations for pressure due to div free? 
                qq do we have apply iterative computing process here? why? 
                qq *why Voxelization is Suboptimal?? drawbacks of grid based solution? x2 
                qq how can we compute the "ghost" solid pressure in this case?? op66
                qq re- when solving pressure, how can we handle Boundary conditions?? op65 x2
                qq how can we conpute pressure for solid cells??
                qq how to update pressure and velocity?? op68
                qq what about the pressure matrix?
                qq the linear equ. of pressure can be solved effeciently? 
                qq why we iterate? 
                qq how can we simulate smoke? phy model? 
                qq equ. for soot concentration on grid 
                qq why and how can we track temprature?? the Evolution equation!
                qq what is conduction??
                qq how can we handle Boundary conditions??
                qq what is Boussinesq approximation, what may be its advantage? 
                qq how can we add external buoyancy force in momentum equation?? 
                qq which dir has buoyancy force? what are alpha and beta in such equ.? 
                qq what If no soot and no temperature difference?? 
                qq bouy. force is a vector force?
                qq what boundary condition we have to apply when facing open boundaries? 
                qq why vortices disolves too fast?
                qq how can we overcome it?/ how can we preserve the vortices?? x2 
                qq what is vorticity?
                qq what is gradient vorticity?? which direction? 
                qq how can we determain vortex strength and axis of rotation?? op77
                qq what is the equ. of vorticity confinement force?? op77
                qq what is the direction of vorticity confinement force??
                qq why we need delta x here? 
                qq mark omega, ita and force dir in this pic.!op77
                qq what is monotonic Hermite Interpolation, how it benefits? solves overshooting??
                qq how can we do vorticity confinement ??
                qq why we would apply monotonic Hermite Interpolation instead of 
                    > other higher order functions? 
                qq draw example curve for Hermite interpolaiton and the monotonic one!
                qq how can we deal with numerical dissipation? 
                qq but can not use higher order interpolaiton! 
                qq why we typically use SPH approach for water simulation? 
                qq how can we sampling the water-air surface correctly? 
                    > two better ways than grid based ones 
                qq compare voxelization approach and Marker particles
                qq the idea of Marker particles! 
                qq idea of Level Sets method 
                    &pp err? op81 ! x - x' ==> (x,y) - (x',y) ^ 2 ??
                qq what is Fast Distance Function, 
                    > how can it be used to levelset methods?? op81
                qq the computing example of Fast Distance Function on op82 
                qq 3 ways to define a surface when simnulating 
                qq how lower envelop looks like??
                qq how can we compute the intersection of two evolops? 
                qq how Evelop can be built, description? and the code? 
                qq the Extrapolation process?? 
                    qq Extrapolation initialization?
                    qq Extrapolation methods for surface computation?? x2 
                qq the algo. to compute Fast Distance Function??! op84
                qq what means Adaptive Discretization?
                qq what is SPH, and why we use it instead of grid based methods?
                qq what is the sph formulation of the momentum equ.? 
                qq how can quantities be interpolated in sph method? op91
                qq which interpolation are we going to use in practice? 
                qq which 2 methods to interpolate exists?
                qq which mehtod is the best one theoretically?? why it is probabilistic in practice?
                qq what is the prob. with gaussian kernel? why we do not use it?? op91 
                qq how can we compute partial derivatives of the desired quantity?? Ai, 
                    > in a simple way? what may be the prob. of that? 
                qq how can we compute a robust approx. for gradient and lap. of Ai??
                qq how can we compute pressure? 
                qq how can we update pressure and viscosity? what is the updating eqution? 
                    > Basic Algorithm op93
                qq how can we compute, estimate time step width Δ?? smaller than a threshold?
                    > with safty term 
                qq SPH - Basic Algorithm op93, detail see paper! 
                qq how time step width t? is computed  is defined?? computed?? 
                qq when interpolating, how can we do Neighbor Search effeciently?? 
                    > what may be the benefits?
                qq compare Z-Index Sort and KNN algo.?
                qq why Z-order_curve can provide more locality? 
                qq why it has a z shape?
                qq incompressible condition for sph approach? 
                qq what search strategies can be used for Neighbor Search?? op94
                qq what sph Algorithm Variants do you know? 
                qq how can we make Incompressibility Update in sph simulation ? divergence free? 
                qq how can we do Pressure Projection in sph?
                qq what is Multi-Phase Fluids? 
                qq artefacts at the fluidfluid interface? what can be the reason? how can we solve it? x2
                qq what is Solid Body Coupling op99 how can we archieve this? 
                qq how can we render in sph simulation?? given a set of particles op100
                   > how to understand this??
                qq why not use regular grids? when will cause prob.? in which cases?? op46
        ---ray sim 
            pruf-re-ok- slides-2 CG3_02_Rendering-Equation
                        qq 一个波长为 lamda 的光子所携带的能量? 
                        qq 渲染的稳态假设？ 
                        qq flux？ 
                        qq what is irradiance and radiant exitance?? their unit?
                        qq what is Lambert’s law?
                        qq 平面角? projection? unit of plane angle? 
                        qq intensity vs irradiance?? pp 
                        qq 辐射率（Radiance）? 用的最多！L(p,w)
                        qq 这里dA是和谁垂直？ 
                        qq what is the parameter of the radiance function? L? L(p,w)
                        qq radiance depends on position and solid angle, irradiance deps. only on posi.!
                        qq compute energy from L, radiance! by integrating multiple times!
                        qq what is theta? 
                        qq parametric representation of flux, with radiance known!
                        qq brdf defined? parameter of brdf? 
                        qq formulation to show that brdf has: 互易性（reciprocity）and 能量守恒（energy conservation）
                        qq what is bsdf?
                        qq should we always compute absolute value for cos term?
                        qq what is the diff. bet. scattering equation and reflection equation? 
                        qq derive the reflaction/transmission equation with brdf and bssrdf?? 
                    qq why we need Ambient Occlusion? 
                    qq basic rendering equation p10(transport equation, directional form)
                        > explain the meaning of them p12 
                    qq rendering equation II, area formulation. with visibility check p16 
                    qq operator form p17 
                        > what means double reflaction of emitted light? in equation. p17 
                    qq refined with D,S,M... p18 
                    qq mark them p19 
                    qq measurement equation calculating brightness of a pixel? p20 
                        > what is spectral efficiency? 
                        > spatial power? 
                    qq spectral importance function? p21 
                    qq speed and energy of a tiny photon
                    qq calcu. of photon energy p25 
                    qq Spectral Energy Density of diff. light source judge. p26 
                    qq def. of radiance and irradiance p27 p28 
                    qq how comes the integration part in rendering equation? p29 
                    qq def. of BRDF p29 
                    qq diffuse brdf? p30 
                    qq Without volumetric scattering, the radiance is constant along rays? 
                    qq brdf relates incoming irradiance with outgoing radiance? 
                    qq BRDFs can be analyzed by integrating over one  directional argument. Integration over outgoing  
                        > directions yields directional hemispherical reflections  that must be ≤ 1.
                        > why? p32 
                    qq how can we Solve the Rendering Equation? x2 p34
                    ---REVIEW---
                    ---
                    ---
                    ---
                    qq the steps of Bidirectional Path-Tracing p35 
                ---r1
                    qq what is Ambient Occlusion
                    qq what is global illumination? 
                    qq what is color bleeding
                    qq what is radiosity 
                    qq what is mirror reflections
                    qq Crepuscular Rays are volumetric scattering effects
                    qq what is volumetric scattering
                    qq compare volumetric Subsurface scattering and volumetric scattering! 
                    qq describe the light transporting process 
                    qq basic observation about the light transport ?? 
                    qq which Simplifications will be made to simulate the light transport ?? x2
                    qq raytracing operator:
                    qq what is the equ. in this light path??
                    qq describe which parts are there in transport equation
                    qq formula of RE !! [Immel et al 1986] 
                    qq Fredholm integral equation
                    qq why we use Radiance? &h 
                    qq The SI unit of radiance??
                    qq how can we parameterize the direction omega? op13 
                    qq what is brdf
                    qq explain the rendering equ. each para. op11
                    qq how total outgoing radiance can be solved in math view ??
                    qq what if is constant C? 
                    qq RE in Surface Patches formulation, with integration over scene area and 
                        > visibility check, explain!op15
                    qq mark omega y->x in this pic
                    qq transfrom the RE to the form of Lout! 
                    qq explain this equ. in a new form rendering equ. 
                    qq how can we do visibility test ?
                    qq what is geometry factor ?
                    qq write RE in operators formulation! gain insight on a higher level!
                        > the operator form of the rendering equation
                    qq write down those operators !! op17
                    qq solving it? how can we? what is the meaning of each part? 
                    qq RT can be refined to L-DSM-E, what is the meaning? 
                    qq we can write a regular expression for that? 
                    qq write the path expression with a given pic! 
                    qq whats the regular expression of all paths? in a scene! op19 
                    qq compute Lout op17
                    qq splitting of the BRDF into?? x3 parts!!!
                    qq explain the regular expression syntax
                    qq how can we reperesent diff. kinds of rays?? 
                        > use a regular expression syntax?? how op18
                    qq give the name of the paths! in this pic!! op19
                    qq definition of diffuse, specular and mirror, difference??
                    qq what is Sensor Efficiency? 
                    qq how can we compute the brightness of a pixel 
                    qq describe the simplified camera model, where is aperture? pixels?  
                    qq given cam. model. explain this measurememt equ. componentwise ! op20
                    qq describe rendering equation with spectral importance function
                    qq for each sampling point in the scene, there is a corresponding weight? two  
                    qq the weights flow from the sensor to the light sources
                    qq illu with a graph!
                    qq what is spectral importance function
                    qq how can you describe the RE, what phy. meaning does it have?
                    qq two parameterizations of the rendering equation
                    qq ray direction, which not accepted, will not make contributions to sensor? pixel value? y 
                    qq what is hemispherical reflectance
                    qq each photon has characteristic?? x2 
                    qq what is the relationship bet. freq./wavelength and light speed? op24
                    qq each photon carries a tiny amount of energy q? 
                    qq what is typical wavelength for lights? 
                    qq how can we know the energy given a graph? spectural graph! 
                    qq how can we compute the energy of a photon?? hv 
                    qq range of wavelength?? 
                    qq Spectral Energy Density
                    qq what is emission spectrum of different light sources?? exanple! 
                    qq what is the diff. bet. irradiance and radiosity?? op27 
                    qq the area orthogonal to what? 
                    qq how brdf is defined?? op29
                    qq what is total reflected radiance, how to compute?? op30
                    qq what is directional hemispherical reflectance?  its range??
                    qq what if for a constant (diffuse)  BRDF?
                    qq is radiance constant along rays? 
                    qq how is albedo/ directional hemispherical reflectance defined?? op30
                    qq The units of the BRDF ??
                    qq what is bsdf 
                    qq what is bssrdf
                    qq how many steradians for a hemisphere??
                    qq radiance describes?? phy meaning of that??
                    qq relations bet. radiance and irradiance 
                    qq what is the fact of volumetric scattering?? 
                    qq expression of brdf?
                    qq why lower then 1 ?
                    qq when Integration over outgoing directionsq ??
                    ---
                    qq the idea of numerical solution strategies
                    qq the case of Radiosity can be baked? why? 
                    qq the baken process of radiosity?? 
                    qq derive system of linear equations in case of Radiosity baken!
                    qq why double integral in 3d not trible? pp 
                    qq what is domega? paramiterization , omega can be para. to two angles !
                    qq how can we solve the RE numerically?? the algo in course level?? op34
                    *qq describe the process of bi-directional path tracing op35
                    qq the baken process? 
                    *qq how can we describe and scan material property? 
                    qq monte-carlo integration techniques
                    qq how monte-carlo integration techniques be used?? later, highlev  
            pruf-re-ok- slides-5 CG3_05_Path-Based-Rendering
                    ---REVIEW---
                    ---
                    ---
                    ---
                qq what is caustics, draw to illustrate! envelop? incident rays? reflacted rays?
                qq illu. Path Tracing with Direct Lighting and Light Tracing with Eye Rays
                qq how light sampling can be connected to eye?? 
                    > directly hit the eye position?? n 
                qq always connect to the eye point?? n
                qq Light Tracing – Algorithm op08 large! 
                qq how can we render caustics with lower variance? 
                    > how to choose the best renderer? 
                qq is light tracing optimal? 
                qq what benefits does light tracing have? x1 
                qq compare light tracing and path tracing, good in which effect?
                qq how can a lower variance be achieved? what if we sample the same rays many times?
                qq should we reuse the light ray several times?? n
                qq what is the key point of a cache based method? 
                qq the idea of Bidirectional Path Tracing? 
                qq what is BPT in rendering
                qq show a ray path with x w notation! op14 
                qq what is Overall average length?
                qq what are possible sampling techniques? 
                qq for BPT, there are still problems with which paths?
                qq calcu. Average path length 
                qq which sampling techs do you know related to calculating path pdf? [open question]
                qq how can we compute path pdf, which varients are there?? xn , 
                &p pp op18 --> veach thesis!!!
                qq what is Image formation, how can we do this? algo.!  op19
                qq show that The same path can be generated in several different ways illu. 
                qq and this may intro. bais?? y
                qq explain the given picture/ image--pic notes 
                qq how can we compute path pdfs?? op21 Path pdfs
                qq what does the last pdf mean? x2 
                qq how can we sample directions?? 
                qq to support sampling of directions?
                qq why there is no visibility check in direct sampling?? op22 
                qq the idea of BPT? 
                qq how the path looks like with zy formation??
                qq what is s and t? 
                qq how can we compute k from s and t?  k is the number of edges 
                    ---REVIEW---
                    ---
                    ---
                    ---
                qq special cases! 
                    > what does it mean if s=0? path tracing 
                    > and s = 1? direct light sampling 
                    > t=0? t=1?
                qq can we do MIS on one path? y what do we need as pre-requires?
                ---tobecontinue
                qq additional artefacts for BPT without MIS? why? 
                ---
                qq why we set 1 to the first few vertices? 
                qq how can we compute weights increamentally?? op29
                qq how can we do Russian Roulette in BPT? 
                qq Efficient Sampling with path groups, how can we do this? 
                qq are there Efficient Computation of Contribution? idea? x2 
                qq what problems can bpt arise? 
                qq what is the most app. advantages for caching?? 
                ---METROPOLIS LIGHT TRANSPORT
                qq idea of Metropolis Sampling? 
                qq which scenes are best suitable for MLT?
                qq why markov process can be assumed? 
                qq what is Markov property        
                qq what is Markov process
                qq what is Markov chain.
                    qq idea of PSSMLT
                qq how Markov Chain can be used for MLT?? 
                qq how simulate tempering can be used for MLT??
                qq the idea of Metropolis Light Transport
                qq MLT is best suitable for ? which kind of scene ??
                qq how to explain those numbers? later 
            pruf-re-ok- slides-7 CG3_07_Cache-Based-GI
                    ---REVIEW---
                    ---
                    ---
                    ---
                qq how radius update work in ppm? 
                qq Bidirectional Path Tracing is very bad for?? good for??
                qq idea of Photon mapping:  op08 x4 
                qq where do we store photons in the scene? 
                qq when do we store a photon to caustic photon map? what is the criteria? and when global photon map? 
                qq how can we enforce the caustic probability? 
                qq when geathering, which hits are accepts?
                qq what is a photon filter? 
                qq Radiance Estimation? draw a graph to illustrate op11
                qq how can we estimate radiance in photon mapping?? op11 
                qq describe the process of Photon Emission op12 
                    > how can we compute photon power??
                    > location and direction of each photon emitted? 
                qq does each photon distributes the complete light into the scene?
                qq illu. the radiance estimate process with a graph
                qq why normalize??  op13
                qq how can we support several light sources?? op13 
                    > compute total light emitted from the light source, photon power in this case!
                qq what is pixel estimates in PM? 
                qq how can we sample reflected direction?? 
                    > how can we update the power of each photon after reflaction??  op14 
                qq describe Photon Tracing process (part of algorithm, detail view) op14
                qq what kind info. is stored in photon stru.?? op15 basic terms x3 
                qq how to accelerate the collection of photons
                qq what is cone filter ? why use it??
                qq which Different Approximations can be used in rendering pass 
                    > of photon mapping?? op17
                qq which Two Photon Maps?? diff? 
                qq why do not store first diffuse
                qq compare those two photon maps: 
                    > caustic photon map and global photon map! the diff.??
                qq why we need caustic photon map?? 
                qq why not store first diffuse in global photon??
                qq how can we do importance sampling in both cases? 
                    > caustic photon mapping and global photon mapping?? ! 
                qq when we terminate paths in both maps? 
                qq Photon Mapping Discussion, advantages of photon mapping x4x1
                qq pro cons for photon mapping when compared to bpt
                ---inversed PM  
                qq the computation time of PM? Inversed PM?? 
                qq the computational demand for both cases?? 
                qq the idea of reverse photon mapping?
                qq reverse photon mapping algo? x4
                qq how to estimate photon influence radii in reversed pm?? op23
                qq how can we measure the influences of reverse photons?? 
                qq the complexity for this? 
                qq Pseudocode of the inversed photon mapping algorithm op24
                ---
                qq why Photon mapping (PM) is biased?? 
                qq what is KDE?? why can introduce bias in PM 
                qq PM is not a convergent method??
                qq the idea of PPM? Progressive Photon Mapping 
                qq which three important PPM approaches are there? 
                qq such three methods have the same radius update? op28 
                qq How to store KDE radius that can be updated per iteration??
                qq How to combine the results of photon mapping iterations?? op29 
                qq how can we reduce low frequency noise in realistic rendering? 
                qq does ppm use reverse photons?? y
                qq draw a graph to illu. the PPM algorithm 
                qq draw a graph to show SPPM algorithm
                qq the diff. bet. PPM and SPPM?? number of passes can be written as an equ.? 
                qq what is randomly gen. hit point? how it affects the rendering result?? 
                qq in what kind of scene is best suitable for SPPM??
                qq the pipeline for each method -re 
                qq hwo can we measure rendering quality?? use 
                qq year of SPPM, ProbPPM? 
                ---
                qq major new contribution of probPPM? 
                qq the idea of probPPM -re
                qq what is the main contribution of it?? probPPM! -re 
                ---VERTEX CONNECTION AND  MERGING (VCM)
                qq idea of Vertex Connection and Merging x2
                qq the MIS formulation of VC and VM 
                    > light to eye!!! so use MIS in between!
                ---REAL-TIME PM
                qq bsdf = ? + ? 
                qq what is the parameter of brdf?
                qq what is the diff. bet. brdf and btdf? 
        ---ql pruf-official--with answer 
            <> Explain algorithmic techniques
                qq path, light and bidirectional path tracing x4 + x4 + x2
                qq idea of multiple importance sampling according to brdf and L_in x2 
                qq what is MIS? +igen 
                qq idea of multiple importance sampling in BPT
                qq direct and indirect light sampling
                qq final gathering x2
                qq photon mapping x4
                qq reverse photon mapping x4
                qq progressive photon mapping x1
                qq vertex merging 
                qq general idea of gamma-ton tracing x3
                qq idea behind boids
                qq how to simulate a piece of cloth with a particle system?
                qq Why do stiff springs cause problems?
                qq How to model hysteresis in cloth simulation? x2 
                qq How can one avoid collisions in a rigid body simulator?
                qq What is contact point and what kind of non-degenerate contacts exist for polygonal meshes?
                    > 2 non-degenerated contact types?
                    > degenerated cases 
            <> Explain math
                qq integration over solid angle
                qq Monte Carlo (MC) estimation of integral
                qq variance, bias
                qq why do we need variance in solving rendering equ.? + igen
                qq when is MC better than Rieman Integration?
                qq MC estimation of reflection integral
                qq idea of importance sampling
                qq Russian Roulette
                qq Nusselt’s analogon
                qq uniform, rejection, N-rooks, transformation sampling
                qq What parts of the reflection integral in directional form can be importance sampled?
                qq what is a differential equation? + igen
                qq ordinary and partial differential equations
                qq give some examples of ODE and PDEs? 
                qq reduction to order one system of ODEs, order reduction in phy? 
                qq explicit, implicit, symplectic Euler
                qq what is time evoluiton funciton? 
                qq A-stabel
                qq what means stiff for a DE? 
                qq general idea behind step width adaptation
                qq how to find the best integrator for a given problem?
                qq what is numerical dissipation and how does it influence numerical methods for solving incompressible
                    > Navier Stokes equations?
                qq what is the splitting trick when solving ODEs?
                qq how can the advection step be approached in a semi-Lagragian manner? x3 
                qq how does the pressure update work for incompressible fluids?
                qq what are the different boundary conditions used in fluid simulation? 
                qq how do we interpolate attributes in SPH simulation?
            <> Explain physics
                qq unit, idea of non-dimensionalization
                qq Noether's theorem
                qq radiometry: energy, power, radiosity and irradiance, radiance (incoming vs outgoing), brdf, albedo(Diffuse BDRF),
                    > potential, spectral quantities
                qq rendering equation in directional, area formulation and operator form, light path regular expressions
                qq geometry factor and visibility
                qq emitted radiance of light source, sensor efficiency and measurement equation
                qq brdf properties: Helmholtz reciprocity, energy conservation
                qq how to make Phong and Blinn-Phong brdfs physically plausible?
                qq explain microfacette models on a coarse level, what are the individual parts?
                qq what do the Fresnel coefficients describe?
                qq what is an anisotropic brdf, what an isotropic?
                qq how to measure a brdf?
                qq how to represent a measured brdf efficiently?
                qq What is a bssrdf?
                qq quantities: mass, acceleration, momentum, (conservative) force.  energy (kinetic, potential)
                qq what different forces do you know? x4 x2 
                qq inertia moment, inertia tensor, vector representation of angular velocity, 
                    > angular acceleration, torque,
                    > rotational kinetic energy
                qq the idea of the Sequential impulse loop/ algorithm + igen, iwrote
                qq how can pose of rigid body be described
                qq how does pose evolve over time without friction?
                qq how does orientation change in dependence of angular velocity?
                qq how do forces applied to a point on a rigid body act on its linear and angular velocities?
                qq what is a “Kraftstoß” and how does it help to compute the change in momentum during a rigid body simulation 
                qq what are kinetic and dynamic viscosity?
                qq what are incompressible fluids?
        ---+ql picture notes! 
        ---story mode 
            ---
                                > angular acceleration, torque,
                                > rotational kinetic energy
            ---
    ---summ. active mode 
    ---problems 
    ---extended, from tt slides ref papers  
            >> rendering and brdf, ray sim 
                >> bsdf 
                    >> https://rgl.epfl.ch/publications
                    >> https://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/departments/computer-graphics/publications
                    >> A Microfacet Based Coupled Specular-Matte BRDF Model with Importance Sampling
                        qq a brdf model targets?
                        qq what is HR?
                        qq why albedo can also be interpreted as the response to homogeneous unit illumination
                        qq the requirements of physical plausibility? 
                        qq describe the microfacet model
                        qq how microfacets are modeled?
                        qq what are the drawbacks of cook torrance model??
                        Our specular BRDF is a  simplification of the Cook-Torrance model.
                        compares the original Cook-Torrance model with  the new BRDF
                    >> https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/60977923
                    >> https://disney-animation.s3.amazonaws.com/library/s2012_pbs_disney_brdf_notes_v2.pdf
                    >> https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/21376124
                        qq what does Fresnel term describe? 
                    >> An Inexpensive BRDF Model for Physically-based Rendering
                    >> https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/57032810
                        qq Desired Traits of a BRDF Model for production? Compactness, Expressiveness, Editability
                        qq what is Lambertian reflectance
                        qq what is Ideal Retroreflector
                    >> many different options for our specular BRDF    
                    >> sig2013-shading-course
                        qq what is a spectral quantity? 
                        qq brdf is the surface’s response to light?
                        qq what are isotropic BRDFs?
                        qq how can we set the light contributions from any back-facing  direction to zero?
                        qq why we use component-wise vector multiplication here? in computing reflection? 
                        qq Limitations of the Microfacet Model?
                    >> Microfacet Models for Refraction through Rough Surfaces
                    >> Discrete Stochastic Microfacet Models
                    >> A Physically-Based BSDF for Modeling the Appearance of Paper
                    >> https://dspace5.zcu.cz/bitstream/11025/11214/1/Lazanyi.pdf
                    >> http://graphics.ucsd.edu/~henrik/papers/fur_bssrdf.pdf
                    >> http://www.apsipa.org/proceedings_2013/papers/380_A-Datadriven-Song-2943205.pdf
                    >> https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~matt/courses/cs563/talks/radiosity.html
                    >> https://www1.cs.columbia.edu/CAVE/publications/pdfs/Oren_SIGGRAPH94.pdf
                    >> https://web.cs.wpi.edu/~emmanuel/courses/cs563/write_ups/chuckm/chuckm_BRDFs_overview.html#:~:text=The%20BRDF%2C%20referred%20to%20as,point%20P%20on%20the%20surface.
                    >> http://www.thetenthplanet.de/archives/255
                    >> https://digibug.ugr.es/bitstream/handle/10481/19751/rmontes_LSI-2012-001TR.pdf;jsessionid=97878771AD4E28B65B909823A8B0C1F2?sequence=1
                    >> https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~david/Classes/CS431/Lectures/BRDF.pdf
                    >> https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/300776.300778
                    >> https://cg.cs.uni-bonn.de/de/projekte/btfdbb/
                    >> http://library.utia.cas.cz/separaty/2009/RO/filip-bidirectional%20texture%20function%20modeling%20state%20of%20the%20art%20survey.pdf
                    >> https://graphics.stanford.edu/papers/bssrdf/bssrdf.pdf
                    >> https://cgl.ethz.ch/publications/papers/papers.php
                    >> A Radiosity  Method for Non-Diffuse Environments
                    >> https://cg.cs.uni-bonn.de/de/projekte/btfdbb/
                        >> +https://cg.cs.uni-bonn.de/aigaion2root/attachments/sattler-2003-efficient.pdf
                >> classical GI 
                    >> Robust Monte Carlo Methods for Light Transport Simulation
                    >> bidirectional path tracing  
                    >> Global Illumination using Photon Maps 
                        qq what is a radiosity algorithm? 
                        qq which three classes of gi algorithms are there? 
                        qq how can be evaluate the direct illumination part in both cases? approximate and accurate
                        qq how can evaluate Caustics part of the reflected integral? 
                        qq the photon map structure is completely separated from the geometric representation? how to understand this?
                    >> Metropolis Light Transport
                    >> Progressive Photon Mapping
                        qq three main types of GI? 
                        qq what is the prob. of this pic? it lacks the fine detail in the  illumination
                        qq what is the biggest advantage of progressive photon mapping?? 
                        qq what is Progressive Radiance Estimate
                        qq In MLT,  each path is generated based on?
                        qq what is nearest  neighbor density estimation
                        qq why the density estimation process  can be considered as a way of loosely 
                            > connecting paths from the  eye to the light? 
                        qq the final quality of PM is often limited by?
                        qq two conditions to ensure the convergence of the PM method? 
                    >> Stochastic Progressive Photon Mapping
                        qq how can we model motion blur and depth of field in GI algos? x2 
                    >> Progressive Photon Mapping: A Probabilistic Approach
                    >> Adaptive Progressive Photon Mapping
                    >> Fast Final Gathering via Reverse Photon Mapping
                    >> Light Transport Simulation with Vertex Connection and Merging
                    >> Unifying points, beams, and paths in volumetric light transport simulation
                >> fancy renderer 
                    >> voxel-cone-tracing
                            qq Global illumination is computationally expensive for several  reasons?
                    >> modern GPU rasterization pipeline acceleration
                    >> Efficient Simulation of Light Transport in Scenes with Participating Media using Photon Maps, Henrik Wann Jensen
                    >> Fast, Flexible, Physically-Based Volumetric Light Scattering
                    >> A Practical Analytic Single Scattering Model for Real Time Rendering
                    >> EFFICIENTLY RENDERING SHADOWS USING THE PHOTON MAP
                    >> Efficient Caustic Rendering with Lightweight Photon Mapping
                    >> https://www.ci.i.u-tokyo.ac.jp/~hachisuka/mmlt.pdf
                    >> https://developer.download.nvidia.com/SDK/10.5/direct3d/Source/ScreenSpaceAO/doc/ScreenSpaceAO.pdf
                    >> Image Space Photon Mapping
    ---re-考试复习
