
    //在读课件的时候进行的扩展阅读
    //在课件的基础之上大概再了解一下，为了灵活运用，不是全部都需要总结
    !good santances 
        Use 'systematic methods' to speed up your paper writing process 
        open discussion instead of a frontup reading of slides
        should use the ACM SIGPLAN Conference Format
        effective writing
        Your work is not scientific if you just choose the first solution and do it
        go beyond conventional thinking
        critical thinking tools!
        abstructs should unfold the research hypothesis
        take use of Paragraph development scheme
        indecats what he will find in paper 
    +
        http://www.creativeproblemsolving.com/tools/cps_summary.pdf
        A PMI Chart is useful in a debate over a difficult decision
            Step 1. Consider the Plus Points 
            simply enumerate all of the positive things you can think of
            enumerate all of the negative things you can think of.
            look whole picture of the event 
            It is a great tool for critical thinking, focussing your attention, evaluating and analysing
        A radar chart 
            is a graphical method of displaying multivariate data 
            three or more quantitative variables represented on axes starting from the same point
            The relative position and angle of the axes is typically uninformative.
            trade-offs, and a multitude of other comparative measures
            Kiviat diagram
            https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/3e/Star_Plot_of_16_cars.jpg
            an expamle of buing cars 
            we can use them to identify clusters of cars with similar features
            average-to-above-average roominess
        Donut Chart
        ...VIS charts 
        aims 
            provide students from Bachelor to PhD level all skills required to conduct good scientific work
            you should be able to write your thesis.
            open discussion instead of a frontup reading of slides
            will be a guided discussion of the contents
            Your paper must be submitted until 25th of June 2019 (AoE) by submitting it via Easychair (https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=asise2019).
            The paper should use the ACM SIGPLAN Conference Format acmart
            Please include page numbers in your paper. Adding the line
            A guide to effective writing.
        what i learn
            typical methods and their detail to use for effective writing.
            and have to know that how the process going 
    Structure of the lecture-按照流程讲述的一门课
        Introduction and Fundamental Research Activities x4（前期基础知识）
            +   
                The limits of science，Data, information, knowledge and wisdom (DIKW).
            ppt-1-Overview
            ppt-2-Self-Management
                zopp
                    Goal analysis/problem analysis tool 
                    a hierarchical goal-oriented problem-solving method with success proof
                    B-POPP is a ZOPP-like problem and efficiency analysis
                        checks blocking factors preventing that objectives are reached.
                        it considers more 
                    Do a ZOPP or a B-POPP and refine it

                甘特图
                    也称为条状图(Bar chart)。 是在1917年由亨利·甘特开发的，其内在思想简单，基本是一条线条图
                    横轴表示时间，纵轴表示活动(项目)
                    图形或表格的形式显示活动；
                    是一种通用的显示进度的方法
                    构造时应包括实际日历天和持续时间，并且不要将周末和节假日算在进度之内
                    甘特图具有简单、醒目和便于编制等特点，在企业管理工作中被广泛应用
                    可分为计划图表、负荷图表、机器闲置图表、人员闲置图表和进度表等五种形式
            ppt-3-Report Types
            ppt-4-What is science?
        *The Research Process ADED （过程是怎样的，展开讲）
            ppt-5-The Research Process ADED
            ppt-6-Information Gathering-Literature Analysis
            ppt-7-Solution Design Processes
                Priorixx methods(sorting methods )?
                    1.num.
                    2.binary.
                    3.kiviat graph 
            ppt-8-Writing Papers-Research Hypotheses
                Direct Paragraph,Suspended Paragraph
                    ...
                discussion
                    基本是一个重复，展望（内部外部）

            ppt-9-Writing-Types of Research Papers
                Shaw's and other's classifications of research papers
        How To Do Scientific Presentations(后期) and review
            ppt-10-Presentations
                This lecture gives a primer on how to prepare and present excellent presentations.
            ppt-11-Revising and Reviewing
                LyX tool
                    LyX is a document processor
                    has a pretty good built-in change tracking system
                        Just do your edits in change-tracking mode and you are done
                why is good to champion 
                    by focusing programme committee members' attention on whether or not they will 
                        "champion" a submitted paper during the programme committee meeting.
                    we can make the selecting Reviewing process 
                    *more efficient 对我们reviewer
                    *encourage people to fight for it， 对他们writer  
                !review aspects?
                    main idea:
                        paper lev: skeleton/innovation depth
                    content:
                        section lev: research question/result/method/Evaluation? has unity?
                        sentence lev: coherence/conciseness
                        subsentence lev: 
                            syntactic revision 
                                Grammar/spell-checking/
            ppt-12-Ethics in Computer Science
                ACM Code of Conduct
                IEEE Code of Conduct





